# Float and Clear

### Objective

* Learn how to break the normal document flow
* Restore normal document flow
* Learn how to detect problems when using floats

### Reading
[CSS Trick - All About floats](https://css-tricks.com/all-about-floats/)
[A list apart - CSS float 101](http://alistapart.com/article/css-floats-101)

# Instructional Plan

### Engage

So far we have been able to get the content structured and the elements to look the way we want but we havent been able to change the way elements are organize on the page. So far everything is stack on top of another or goes with the `normal document flow`. That is because container elements (`div`, `section`, `footer`, etct) are block level elements.

### Explore

Visit any website and open the developer tool. Look for elements that are not within the `normal document flow`. Those elements appears to be order horizontally instead of vertically.

GIF 

### Explain

Float allows to elements to be placed to the left or right of its containing block

What allow us to change the flow of the elements is a CSS property named `float` and it has 2 possible values `right` and `left`.


What allows us to return to the normal document flow for the rest of the elements is the use of the property `clear`. `clear` has three possible values `left`, `right`, and `both`.

### Elaborate

#### Float

```html
<style>
    .my-element {
        width: 300px;
        height: 600px;
        float: left;
    }
</style>

<section>
    <div class="my-element">
        <p>A float is a box that is shifted to the left or right on the current line.</p>
    </div>
    <div class="my-element">
        <p>Content flows down the right side of a left-floated box and down the left side of a right-floated box.</p>
    </div>
</section>
```

#### Clear

```html
<style>
    div {
        width: 300px;
        height: 600px;
    }
    .my-element {
        float: left;
    }
    
    .my-news {
        clear: left;
    }
</style>

<section>
    <div class="my-element">
        <p>A float is a box that is shifted to the left or right on the current line.</p>
    </div>
    <div class="my-element">
        <p>Content flows down the right side of a left-floated box and down the left side of a right-floated box.</p>
    </div>
    <div class="my-news">
        <p>This weekend, when you look into the night sky you will be able to see a blood red, larger-than-life moon projecting against the stars; the first in more than 30 years.</p>
    </div>
</section>
```

With the use of float comes some consequences we need to encounter when we build websites

#### Container collapse

It occurs when the parent element cannot see the children because they are removed from the normal document flow, so it collapses up until it finds an element that is part of the normal flow. If not, then it collapses entirely.

#### Column collapse

A column collapse happens when the floating element runs out of space from its parent container so that the element(s) will resume in another line.

### Evaluate

Start from an empty HTML and CSS file. Don't forget to link your CSS file.
I want you to:
* Have a main container
* Within main add two div elements
* To each div add an image of 250x150 using `http://www.placehold.it/250x150`
* Add also a paragraph with filling text (lorem ipsom)
* Make main 850 pixels wide and each div 400 pixels wide

**Class Discussion**

Now float each div to the left using the property we've learn.
What do you see happening?

**Class Discussion**

* Remove float
* Add a brackground color to the main container - Do you see the background color?
* Float left those div's again
What happened to the background color?

**Class Discussion**

* Make both div's 475 pixels wide
Do they still look floating?

### Exercise

Download this initial [project](../exercises/04/float.zip) and start working towards making a website. Text, images, and mesuarement are included.

Your final result should look like this:


### Homework

#### Container collapse

#### Column collapse


Download this initial [project](../exercises/04/homework.zip) and start working towards making this website. Text, images, and mesuarement are included.
Your final result should look like this:
