# Bootstrap Responsive Utility and Navigation

### Objective

* Understand what Responsive Utility is
* How to implement Responsive Utility
* Implement a navigation using Bootstrap

### Reading

# Instruction Plan

### Engage

Now that we know how to include Bootstrap in our project let's utilize some of the classes that will make things easier and consistent on multiple devices. The use of `Responsive Utility` and `Navigation` are only the top of the iceberg. There is more to know about Bootstrap than what we can cover here in class.

### Explore

Visit:

* http://kikolio.github.io/

### Explain

The nice thing about the classes Bootstrap implement is the naming. The name of the classes are - in most cases - self-explenatory. If we look at `Responsive Utility` classes we can understand what is the purpose of it and these utility classes are for showing and hiding content by device via media query.

The use of this classes  will allow us to show or hide content/elements according the device specified. For example you can set a content/element to show only on a mobile phone and be hidden when the device is bigger or showing something only for big screens that is hidden for tablets/phones. You can use `.visible-*-*` or `.hidden-*-*` when the first `*` could be xs, sm, md, or lg which represents the size of the screen. The second `-*` allows you modify the element normal document flow - allowing to have it as `inline` or `block`.

### Elaborate

### Evaluate

### Homework

For faster mobile-friendly development, use these utility classes for showing and hiding content by device via media query. Also included are utility classes for toggling content when printed.